Document special case of ResourceQuota for cpu and memory (#37379)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas.md

  See the [walkthrough](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/quota-memory-cpu-namespace/)
  for an example of how to avoid this problem.

{{< note >}}

> ResourceQuota works only if there is no BestEffort pods in the namespace. ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in namespace where BestEffort pods are running.

Reviewer: - [ ] _s/other Pods/other pod/_
- [ ] _s/you would prefer to/you prefer/_

The word "pod" is sometimes capitalized and sometimes not. We should be consistent.

> ResourceQuota works only if there is no BestEffort pods in the namespace. ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in namespace where BestEffort pods are running.

Reviewer 2: > We should be consistent.

Nice to have; I wouldn't block a merge on that detail.

> ResourceQuota works only if there is no BestEffort pods in the namespace. ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in namespace where BestEffort pods are running.

Reviewer 3: Don't you add comments which @sftim proposed in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/37379#discussion_r999374990 ?
```
ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in a namespace where BestEffort pods are running,
or where there are other Pods that don't limit their use of the relevant resource.
If you want to enforce that Pods in the namespace do have a limit specified for a particular resource
(for example: `cpu`), you can use an admission controller to require this.
Kubernetes includes a built-in enforcement mechanism,
[limit ranges](/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/), but you could also extend your cluster with your
own custom mechanism if you would prefer to.
```

> ResourceQuota works only if there is no BestEffort pods in the namespace. ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in namespace where BestEffort pods are running.

Author: @YuikoTakada Both of the suggestions given by @sftim and @pacoxu look's ok to me,  @pacoxu suggestion is  https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/37379#issuecomment-1284837317  . Please let me know should i change the description to  

```
ResourceQuota can't enforce/track limit on compute resource in a namespace where BestEffort pods are running,
or where there are other Pods that don't limit their use of the relevant resource.
If you want to enforce that Pods in the namespace do have a limit specified for a particular resource
(for example: `cpu`), you can use an admission controller to require this.
Kubernetes includes a built-in enforcement mechanism,
[limit ranges](/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/), but you could also extend your cluster with your
own custom mechanism if you would prefer to.
```

  See the [walkthrough](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/quota-memory-cpu-namespace/)
  for an example of how to avoid this problem.

{{< note >}}

> - For cpu/memory: ResourceQuota works only if every other pods in the namespace sets a limit for that resource. It means that you cannot create a new pod without limit/request CPU if the resource quota limits the CPU quota of this namespace.

Reviewer 2: Does this include hugepage memory resources?

Author: @sftim I am not so sure on hugepage memory resources please let me check.

Reviewer 4: Only CPU and memory, see
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/112310#issuecomment-1245072299.

> - For cpu/memory: ResourceQuota works only if every other pods in the namespace sets a limit for that resource. It means that you cannot create a new pod without limit/request CPU if the resource quota limits the CPU quota of this namespace.

Reviewer 2: Is this better?
```suggestion
For `cpu` and `memory` resources, ResourceQuotas only work if **every**
other pods in the same namespace sets a limit for that resource.
If you enforce a resource quota in a namespace for either `cpu` or `memory`,
you (and other clients) **must** specify either `requests` or `limits` for that resource,
for every new Pod you submit. If you don't, the control plane may reject admisison
for that Pod.
You can use a [LimitRange ](/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/)to automatically set
a default request for these resources.
```

Author: @sftim the suggested notes look ok to me but i want to address this
>If you don't, the control plane may reject admisison
for that Pod.
>
to

`If you don't, the control plane will reject admisison
for that Pod.`

and 
> **must** specify either `requests` or `limits`
>
to
**must** specify either `requests` and `limits`

I am not so sure that if we provide either of this will work, i think we have to explicitly set both the request and limit in pod   manifest , any thoughts on this @pacoxu @YuikoTakada , please suggest.

Reviewer 4: It depends.
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  name: compute-resources
spec:
  hard:
    requests.cpu: "1"
    requests.memory: 1Gi
    limits.cpu: "2"
    limits.memory: 2Gi
```
You can special both in resourcequota or just limit or just request for cpu/memory.

Author: Sure, i have addressed the changes please take a look

> - For other resources: ResourceQuota works and will ignore pods in the namespace without setting a limit or request for that resource. It means that you can create a new pod without limit/request ephemeral storage if the resource quota limits the ephemeral storage of this namespace.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't make sense to me. This sounds like the same behavior as for other resources.

If I define a Pod with no limit for memory and no request for memory, the Pod still works but can use up most of the memory of a node.
I f  defime a Pod with a container that mounts an `emptyDir` volume, and I don't limit the size of that volume, and I don't specify it as memory backed, I think the Pod creates OK even if there is a ResourceQuotsa for ephemeral storage in that Pod's namespace.

Does that sound right?

Author: >I f defime a Pod with a container that mounts an `emptyDir` volume, and I don't limit the size of that volume, and I don't specify it as memory backed, I think the Pod creates OK even if there is a ResourceQuotsa for ephemeral storage in that Pod's namespace.
> 
> Does that sound right?

Yes that's seems right the Pod will create and it will be in running state but the difference is ResourceQuota doesn't enforce in that case. We have to explicitly mentioned it in pod spec.

> If I define a Pod with no limit for memory and no request for memory, the Pod still works but can use up most of the memory of a node.

Pod can take up the memory limit and CPU limit up to which we have provided in resource Quota.

Reviewer 2: What happens if I set a namespace-level limit for ephemeral storage, and then I submit a Pod that has no request and no limit for ephemeral storage, and that Pod defines an `emptyDir` volume?

Do cluster operators need to use LimitRange or a similar mechanism to make sure that resource quotas are enforced for resources other than `cpu` and `memory`?

Reviewer 4: > What happens if I set a namespace-level limit for ephemeral storage, and then I submit a Pod that has no request and no limit for ephemeral storage, and that Pod defines an `emptyDir` volume?

This is allowed. Not allowed for cpu/memery. But allowed for ephemeral storage.

> Do cluster operators need to use LimitRange or a similar mechanism to make sure that resource quotas are enforced for resources other than `cpu` and `memory`?

In the case above, we have to suggest user to use LimitRange to add a default limit/request for ephemeral in Pod that has no request and no limit for ephemeral storage.

Reviewer 2: OK. Let's make sure we recommend setting a LimitRange, then.

Author: > > What happens if I set a namespace-level limit for ephemeral storage, and then I submit a Pod that has no request and no limit for ephemeral storage, and that Pod defines an `emptyDir` volume?
> 
> This is allowed. Not allowed for cpu/memery. But allowed for ephemeral storage.

Yes this is allowed but the constraint is in that case ResourceQuota will not be enforced, and pod will be created successfully

Author: > > Do cluster operators need to use LimitRange or a similar mechanism to make sure that resource quotas are enforced for resources other than `cpu` and `memory`?
> 
> In the case above, we have to suggest user to use LimitRange to add a default limit/request for ephemeral in Pod that has no request and no limit for ephemeral storage.

This sounds ok to me to add LimitRange reference to it.

  See the [walkthrough](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/quota-memory-cpu-namespace/)
  for an example of how to avoid this problem.

{{< note >}}
- For `cpu` and `memory` resources, ResourceQuotas enforce that **every**
(new) pod in that namespace sets a limit for that resource.
If you enforce a resource quota in a namespace for either `cpu` or `memory`,
you, and other clients, **must** specify either `requests` or `limits` for that resource,

> for every new Pod you submit. If you don't, the control plane may reject admisison

Author: Done

for that Pod.

> You can use a [LimitRange](/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/)to automatically set

Author: @YuikoTakada i have addressed the changes , please take a look.
